WORKING FIELD NOTES (raw) — not used by the viz. Do not treat as publication-ready.
The viewer loads anonymized summaries from `interviews.json` instead.

P1
Interview - 2 high school students, interviewed at Quincy Red Line station
Live: Walton, “housing used to be cheaper outside of Boston central area”; trying to relocate to Braintree so second house can be rented out 
Work: Mall, school
Commute: Walk -> bus (20 min)
1 parents do electrical construction work 
1 parents work in [food service(?)] at Northeastern and one works at [somewhere(?)] selling at a fish market

P2
Interview - Legal assistant, retiring next week, interviewed at Quincy Red Line station
Would live in Back Bay “historically beautiful. Lots of walking, lots of, well, not so much open space anymore, but open space”
Commute: Take ferry, “half an hour of pure delight” to Downtown
Live: Squana “I'm surrounded by water, and I have a kayak in the backyard. Wow. that I walk down to the end of the street, and I'm surrounded by water”
Change: “more reliable train service, um, roads that don't delay buses” 

P3
Interview - Kids crossing guard, retired home maker, interviewed at Bánh Mi Shop
Would live where she currently lives (unsure where), also born and raised there. It has changed a lot and is “not the same”
Commutes 10 minutes to work by car 
Change one thing about housing of transit: “I would love to have a self driving car and would never need to parallel park”

P4
Interview - Transit Ambassador, interviewed at Braintree Red Line
Job - Transit ambassador for the T
Commute: Drives to stations, is assigned to a different one every day; buses to stations cannot park at but drives to most stations. Some have to pay
Lives in Weymouth since it “has lots of space, [is] chill”

P5
Interview - Electrician, interviewed at Braintree Commuter Rail Platform
Currently works at Chelsea next to high school (for now) 
Commutes to a different location since “every job is different” using the T, commuter rail, and electric scooter, often 2 hours each way. Takes scooter so doesn’t have to pay for parking
Long commute - usually 2 hours each way by transit, driving would also take 2 hours 
Lives in Rock Lynn half a mile from the station and likes it because it’s a small town
Wishes for “more frequent trains better…right now it’s once an hour. Could cut 2 hours off the commute time if there were more”

P6
Interview - Construction worker,  interviewed at Braintree bus station 
Commute: bus and train, 16 miles avg, usually different places, 45 min to something like Cambridge. If they drive, go to Dorchester then take the train 
Live: Weymouth since it is “quiet”
Change: Would have transit on Sunday since no public transit runs from where he lives in Weymouth to station so “have to take an Uber” 

P7
Interview - Pastry chef,  interviewed at UMass/JFK commuter rail station
Works: Back Bay and Seaport 
Takes transit, 20 minutes (2 miles from where he lives) 
Would live in SF for family, in Boston would live in Salem (used to live in Braintree, Southie, Beacon Hill, Dorchester) 
Want to live closer to work
Would change to make more accessible, more frequent schedule, available past 3 am 

P8
Interview - High school students,  interviewed at UMass/JFK commuter rail station
Takes the commuter rail
Live in South shore, Weymouth, “Sichua(?)”
1 hour, 20 min, 1 hour 
Good school with entrance exam?
Parents live for nice location by the water, work in Quincy, Downtown 
Autism help children, Northeastern, BPL, United airlines
Would live in Back Bay or Southie 
Would make commute shorter 
Would change to make less problems, high parking fees, make transit free, make more consistent during weather 

P9
Interview: Practice assistant at Brigham Women’s hospital,  interviewed at UMass/JFK commuter rail
Commute: “I usually catch the 4:25AM train from my stop, and I get here by 6:00 AM” - 1 hour 50 mi
Live: Bedford “because originally I lived in New York, and then I moved here, and then I was, like, looking at the prices, ridiculous. And so I was able to find a cheaper apartment [in Bedford]”
If could live anywhere, would live in mission Hill 
Change: More consistent schedules 

P10
Interview - Student at UMass, interviewed at JFK/UMass commuter rail station
Commute is 25 minutes from home, sometimes takes the commuter rail, sometimes takes the bus then red line (35 min instead of 25) “if I miss the time [commuter rail]” since the last rail leaves at 9:20 am “That's the last time we can just go straight from my station to come here. Yeah. So after those times, I have to, like, stop at [unintelligible station] or Quincy.”
Lives in Brockton
“Um, it's okay. I mean, I wish, especially for the red line, they usually take a long time before they depart from the station. I see. I don't understand why, but... Yeah. low key annoying. Uh huh. So that's one of the issues I have”
Would change transit to be “faster, more consistent times” for the commuter rail, “ That would be much better. A more time, so it can just go straight. Instead of it just ending in the morning”

P11
Interview - Deliverer of medical equipment and preparer of medical information for Boston Scientific, interviewed at UMass/JFK commuter rail
​​Lives in Dorchester, due to the “Environment, you know, getting to work, and there's more surrounding things that I can get to faster. Yeah. So it feels like a central area”
Commute: Works in Quincy, 20 min by rail, walks from where they live to the commuter rail. Is happy with the commute “'cause save money, save gas…Don't worry about no car accidents”
Would live in Hyde Park, which is a little closer to Quincy
Would change how the train operates under inclement weather conditions since it’s late “I'll probably get home later. Instability, yeah. 

P12
Interview - Teacher at Boston Public High Schools, interviewed on sidewalk outside of JFK/UMass station
Drives to work in Hyde Park 30 minutes, isn’t happy or unhappy “Could be shorter”
Lives in Dorchester since he bought his house through the city program for first time home buyers. Used to rent in Boston in Brighton right until during COVID
Would live in South Boston West Roxbury, just because it's closer to work
Wife takes Boston transit and is pregnant so he comes to pick her up since “the stairs are not ideal.” Uses transit when visiting family since they live at the end of the line (Braintree) and the commuter rail skips over
Would change so the commuter rail has more access 

P13
Interview - Technician in the medical field, interviewed at JFK/UMass station
Lives in middlebourough since it is “peaceful, in the country, and has good neighbors”
Commutes 45 min to boston beth israel by commuter rail train and bus
Would change commuter rail reliability “The app tells on itself, it says it’s less than 75% on time”

P14
Interview - Student at UMass Amherst, interviewed at JFK/UMass commuter rail station 
Lives in Brockton since he grew up there
Would live closer to UMass
Happy with how transit is
Harvard
P15
Interview 1 
Would like to be in Seattle because that is where familiar friends are. The northwest has the “best of everything” and mentioned national parks within 2 hours and skiing in the winter.Currently in SF to start a company. 2 people: 1 CTO commutes 30 minutes between 2 MUNI buses in SF. The other data scientist works from home. Would change “more frequent trains, better connectivity” to avoid having to make a connection since he lives nearby workplace

P16
Interview 2
Would live in Cambridge to “get rid of one car” and go from a “two car family” and would “ love to have more things available within walking distance of my home” and enjoys the “vibrancy, and I also like that parts of Cambridge feel…residential, but you still have everything. You could turn the corner, and there's what you need. Your business or commercial district.” Currently lives in Medford and takes 10 - 15 minutes to get places. Works from home now and before the pandemic. Enjoys the T but doesn’t use it very much since “my life is not focused in downtown.” “The closest one is Tufts Bedford, which is a mile and a half from my house” and takes the bus -> T -> Boston Wishes there were more reliable express buses from where she lives. The express bus that was close to my house got taken away since it was paused and never came back and routes were changed after. 

P17
Interview 3 
Lives in Fairmouth, Philadelphia and commutes 30 min by car to New Jersey. Works in in industrial pump rentals, try to get equipment from, like, maybe, like, one branch location to another. It’s a desk job. But it's very reliant on, like, overtime, so it tends to end up being a situation where I need to stay there, like, nine, ten hours, like, get enough hours, really, like, make money I need, too. Mm hmm. So then I'm usually getting home by, like, six or seven. Parking's a disaster. Likes being in a city for communal space, and when I'm not working, being able to access, like, public transportation, and kind of, like, all that sort of stuff. Would like to find a new job at some point in the city so he can access the city? Would change transit to have more consistency from funding. Public transit in Pennsylvania comes from the state so the the city actually really doesn't have much say. on how much money they have.

P18	
Interview 4 
Would ideally live in Back Bay. Lives in Somerville for “somewhere greener, quieter”, used to live in Boston North End but it was “fun, although loud and busy.” Commutes 12 min to MIT by bike as a post-doc. “Cambridge bike paths are cleared a little bit more than the Somerville bike paths…if it’s fresh snow, I just have to Uber or take the T…have to walk for 15 minutes to Porter.” Commute would be a little longer if snowy - taking the Green to Red line but if biking would be about the same. “I think Boston is insane for cycling…it's not for the faint of heart…Oh, it's a vast difference. You take the bridge across, and you can immediately tell that you are in Boston. Your life is in danger…. Fewer [bike paths] and less separated…the drivers just don't really care at all. As soon as you leave that sort of suburban fabric of Cambridge, Somerville, and you're in the city city... Drivers do not care…You can immediately tell.” Would change to make bike paths safer, cordoned off, at just more of them. For housing, make it affordable. “I cannot live alone, unless I lived, I don't know, beyond Alewife or Newton orWatertown. I don't know, somewhere far away, you know, maybe in a studio, but definitely not in a one bedroom apartment. I have three housemates and I don't like that. There's just no other way.”

Interviews summary ends here —-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Raw
Interview 1 
But what is this about? What are you recording about?
Yeah, basically, we're MIT students researching, like, housing and affordability in Boston. And we're watching... We are not locals. Oh, okay. Are you visiting?  Oh, sure, yeah. Were you visiting from? California.Oh, really? You're welcome. In that case, uh... Yeah, go ahead. 
If you could if you could live anywhere, I guess, in the world, where would you live? Uh, in the world... So we were living in Seattle for the past five, 6 years. Oh, shoot, me too. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. So, yeah, we are used to that. Yeah, probably Seattle then for us. Yeah, maybe you see us kind of brain. Yeah. Yeah, this is... What kind of, like, draws you there? Uh, friends, and circles, and, yeah, we're just used to the place, basically. nature. Best of everything. Yeah, yeah. Pressed in northwest. There are many different national parks within like two hours of distance. Yeah. And skiing you want in the winter. Yeah. There is, yeah, there's a lot of nice stuff there. When you were oh, go ahead. Yeah, why do you live in San Francisco now? Oh, I, um, me and my friend, we started the company, and we moved to SF from Seattle. Uh, do... Sorry, this is our first one. Yeah, what are you... What do you do for work? there? Um, I'm the CTO of the company. Oh, cool. And then, I'm a data scientist at a company. Yeah. Cool. And then do you, like, commute to work? Do you work at home? Yeah, I use public. Oh, shoot. Okay, while we transit. How long does it, like, take you? Half an hour. Half an hour. Is that for you? But it won't. Okay, I won't. Oh, okay. Works out. One minute. Maybe five, if you're loading. Brushing the deeds. Yeah. Um, if you, uh, I guess 30 minutes, would you consider that, like, a long commute, an okay commute? It is... Yeah, do you use the Bart or...? The Caltrain. Box? Uh, no, we was at Munich. Oh, so it's within us. Yeah, with the NSA. I see. If there's anything that you could, like, change about, like, how Zinger Transit and SF, would you change anything? More frequent trains, better connectivity. will be nice. Yeah, sometimes I have to, like, if I take first... Base 15 minutes. to switch two buses and, like, the 30 minutes. It's not too far away, but because of, like, I'm switching the buses... Yeah, walking for 10 minutes. And so basically... What are you researching about? Uh, we're doing a research for housing and transit in Boston. We're presenting a policy proposal for the Massachusetts. Metropolitan area Planning Council. for a class project. What? Still curious about everybody's transit everywhere. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Cool. And then, um, oh, I have a card, if you're interested on any information that you have here. Why don't you, like, send online service? Uh, we... I'm trying to contact people on Reddit, like, on their commute that have posted about it in Boston. Yeah, but I thought it would be like more fun and personal to come out here. Yep, yep, yep, yeah. We just trying it out. Yeah, thank you a lot. Enjoy your visit. Yeah, thank you. Take care. 

Interview 2
​​What are you gonna do with it? Oh, we're using... So we're using it for a data Viz class and we're presenting, like, some potential policy proposals. Yeah. Okay. Um, yeah, why would... an area planning committee? Yes. Okay. Uh, so you... where did you say you would live? I loved living in Cambridge. And then you live in. I live in. What is your, like, why would you want to live in? Because, um, I would live in parts of Cambridge, where I could get rid of one car. We have two cars, we have two car family. Okay. And I would love to not meet two cars. Uh huh. And I would love to have more things available within walking distance of my home. Mm hmm. And... yeah, I like the vibrancy, and I also like that parts of Cambridge feel. Um... residential, but you still have everything. You could turn the corner, and there's what you need. Your business or commercial district. Do you commute for work? Yeah. No. I work in... Oh, okay. Do you commute for work? I don't live here. I'm just visiting. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, perfect. Uh, how long does it usually take me to get, like, where you want to go, if you're not commuting, like, wherever you need to be? I can average 10 to 15 minutes driving for the place. Right. Like, the The majority of the places that I would frequent... Yeah. Lower. I mean, like, I typically choose closer places. I also prefer to support local independent stores as much as possible. Not necessarily when I go grocery shopping, but, um... Yeah. But for everything else, I'd rather do that. Yeah. If there's one thing you could change about housing in transit in Boston, what would that be? Yeah. Do you? Well, housing is outrageously expensive, both rentals. Oh, yeah. buying. That way, right? I mean, that's tough. Um, so, I don't know exactly what the answer is. I mean, I am a... I'm a huge supporter of the team. But I don't use it very much, because I don't live that close to a T stop. The closest one is Tufts Bedford, which is a mile and a half from my house. That's great far. Okay. We do have buses, but I don't typically take them. Like bus to tea, yeah. Right, or bust into downtown Boston, because my life is not focused in downtown. I haven't really had the brain need. We typically would drive downtown. Yesterday, we did take the tea, but typically, we drive downtown. Yeah. If we have an event or something to go to. I mean, I wish there was more... reliable... express buses from where Island, 'cause that has been, ever since COVID, there was a big change, and so the express bus that was close to my house got taken away. Like, from funding, or? Well, because because of COVID, and when everything stopped, they paused it, and then they never brought it back. They stated. I see. They changed all the rooms thereafter. Did you work from home before COVID? I did. Okay. I've had, I mean, which has been a very sweet deal, which I love, but, yeah, I've been working from home for like 10 something years. Yeah. Um, what's your name? Andrea. Thank you for your time. Thanks. Oh. Let's do it. Informational card for you. Thank you. We're using this form. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, sure. Thank you, guys. Good luck. Take care. 

Interview 3
​​Um, I guess from where you currently are, like, uh, where do you live? So I live in Philadelphia. It's a neighborhood called Fairmouth. It's kind of just north of center city. Okay. And then do you commute for work? Uh, so, uh, I commute in Philly for work. I'm here visiting, visiting friends. Okay. But yes, a commute from Philadelphia to New Jersey. Oh, which is... Oh, wow. It's pretty long. long does that take? It's about 30 minutes. Okay. Normal highway speeds, but, yes. By car. Is by car? And then, do you... What do you do for work? Uh, yeah, so I work in industrial pump rentals. Obviously, work in the office. I set a contracts, handle logistics. Mm hmm. Uh, I try to get equipment from, like, maybe, like, one branch location to another, and, uh, stuff like that. It's technically an international company, but we have, like, our North American division, essentially, right? Oh, my cool. That's great. I guess for this, for that work, do you feel like, are you happy with the 30 minute commute? Um... It's difficult because it's very reliant on, like, overtime, so it tends to end up being a situation where I need to stay there, like, nine, ten hours, like, get enough hours, really, like, make money I need, too. Mm hmm. So then I'm usually getting home by, like, six or seven. Parking's a disaster, if that kind of answers your question there. Yeah. What's the biggest factor in you living where you currently live? Um, biggest factor is I like being in a city, and, uh, being basically in that communal space, and when I'm not working, being able to access, like, public transportation, and kind of, like, all that sort of stuff. Oh, so you can come home and then present it out? Yeah. Ideally, I would like to find a new job at some point where I'm in the city proper, and just dig public education. So, your ideal place will never be in the city with a job where you can access from that? Yes, I see. And if you could change one thing about housing or transit in Philly, what would that be? Uh, definitely more consistency. Um, it's, um, there's just not enough funding. And it's funding in Pennsylvania, in particular, is state one. So the city actually really doesn't have much say. on how much money they have for, like, our public transportation, so... since it's run by Republicans, a lot of times, they're, like, very hesitant to give, uh, Philadelphia the money they need for the transportation they need. Mm hmm. So, that can be frustrating.

Interview 4 
Yeah. So where do you live now? In Somerville. What's the biggest factor of you living there? Mm, because I lived in Boston, in the North Ends before, and it was fun, although very loud and busy, and I wanted to live somewhere greener, quieter, and that's what I thought somewhere. Oh, interesting. Do you commute for work? Yeah, yeah. I cycle. How long does that take you? I say shit, 12 minutes. Nice, 13. Somerville to... MIT. Oh, do you work at MIT? Oh, we do too. MIT research projects. Oh, cool. Cool, cool, yeah. So are you happy with your commute? Yeah, I would say so. Yeah. I don't say. Cycling, even in the winter? Yeah, as far as possible. You got the snow tires? Actually, no, I do have a road bike and the tires are quite thin, so I did the same. It works out pretty well. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, it depends. I mean, I think the Cambridge bike paths are cleared a little bit more than the Somerville bike pass. Oh, if it's fresh snow, I just have to Uber or take the tea. But most often, especially after the plows have gone through, it's all right. What's the timing like if you have to take the tea? I have to walk for 15 minutes to porter and then, yeah, gotcha, gotcha. So how would your commute be different if you lived in Backpack? question actually worse. I would cycle just like I would now. It would probably be the same. Yeah, I kind of. roughly. across the bridge, but it would be even more painful in the winter because I probably had to take a green line or red line or something like that, you know? Yeah, yeah. So, then, for when you're, like, transiting and stuff for non work, do you bike to get where you want to, or do you then take the transit? Um, if I go to anywhere in Summerville or Cambridge, I bike, if I have to go to... Back, back, back. Yeah, well, I don't know, I don't cycle that anymore. I think Boston is insane for cycling. Oh really? You had to be. Yeah, yeah, to be a bit, uh, don't know. It's not for the fades of heart, I would say. I know that. I often take off the Brooklyn. Oh, really? Compared to Cambridge? Yeah, how is it different? Oh, it's a vast difference. You take the bridge across, and you can immediately tell that you are in Boston. Your life is in danger. Yeah, exactly. Less bike paths, they're not separated? Yeah, both, both actually. Yeah. Fewer and less separated, and... Like, are the drivers more? The drivers just don't really care at all. As soon as you leave that sort of suburban fabric of Cambridge, Somerville, and you're in the city city... Drivers do not care. Wow, I can't believe the change is just over one bridge. It's crazy. You can immediately tell. can immediately tell you. So thinking positively, if there's one thing you can change about transit or cycling or housing in Boston, what would that be? Mm, yeah, I mean, the obvious one, it truly is making bike paths safer, cordoned off, at just more of them, really. There's virtually no biking infrastructure in Boston. Aside from blue bikes, but when, you know, talking about pasts and so on. That's horrible. Housing. Yeah, my goodness, I don't know. just make it more affordable. Must it is, I guess, one of the most... Yeah, exactly. That's obviously a dream that won't happen, but not even a 5 dream. It's too unrealistic, but, I mean, I'm on a postdoc salary, and, you know, I can tell you how much it is because you can look at, look it up online at 70,000, and I cannot live alone, unless I lived, I don't know, beyond ailwife or Newton Watersown. I don't know, somewhere far away, you know, maybe in a studio, but definitely not in a one bedroom apartment. So, 31 and I have housemates, and I don't like that. There's just no other way. Yeah, housemates, where you live with apartment. Well, thank you for sharing. 
